All right, guys.
Now we're going to get started with the the mobile version of the website.
So let's make this a little smaller here and we're going to have a few.
Some styles are going to vary, whether it's a tablet or whether it's a smartphone.
So basically for tablets, I want I want this to be two columns.
I want just to two columns.
But on mobile, on smartphones, I want it to be stacked in one column.
But let's let's handle the navigation first.
So the navigation is going to be the same on tablet and mobile.
Now in our HTML files, we already have a link to mobile CSS and basically it kicks in when the screen
is 768 or less.
So let's, let's keep style CSS open so we can use this as a reference and let's take mobile CSS and
let's bring this over to the side here.
And let me see if can we fit all this on here?
Let's see if we can do this.
Um.
Like that.
All right.
So hopefully this this works out for you guys.
You can see this.
Good.
So we're going to start with the navigation now.
One thing right off the bat that I want to do is get rid of the social icons unless it's on, you know,
larger than 768.
So let's put a comment here.
We'll say navigation and then let's take the main dash nav ID and target the class of social and let's
set that to display none and save.
So that will get rid of it.
Now, this doesn't look bad.
It really doesn't.
And this would probably be fine if.
If if you never planned on adding any other links, if you just had these two links home and about.
But I don't like to do things that way.
I like to plan it, you know, I like to make it scalable, basically.
So we're going to switch this around a little bit.
Let's take the the navigation container.
So we have main dash nav and container and let's set the grid template columns to just one FR.
So basically just on top of each other.
And I'm also going to say grid gap.
Let's do 1.2 REM.
All right.
Now, we want these to be centered, right?
So we're going to take the UL, so let's say main dash nav UL, which is the menu and we're going to
justify self to center.
So if I do that, it pushes it in the middle.
And then actually I think that's all I want to do with the UL.
So here we had just a fi self end which had it all the way over.
Now we have it in the middle.
Now the logo.
We want to do the same thing.
So actually now what we can do is just add.
Onto this main nav logo and that puts it in the middle.
Now for the link, I want to lessen the padding just a little bit.
So we have 0.75 REM for the padding around this, but I want to make this a little smaller.
So let's say main nav and ul l i a and let's change the padding to 0.50 rem so that just it just makes
it a little bit smaller.
All right.
Now, that's pretty much all we need to do for the menu.
So you'll see as soon as we hit 768, it turns into that and it's still sticky, of course.
All right.
Now for tablet size, I want this right here on tablets.
I want this to be the same.
So I'm going to leave that for now.
We're not we're not doing mobile yet or I shouldn't say mobile tablets are also mobile, but we're not
doing small smartphone devices yet.
So I'm going to leave this for now and let's move on to this area, which is the home articles.
And I want those to be in two, two columns.
So let's say home dash articles and it has an articles container which is our grid container and we're
going to set grid dash template dash columns.
And let me just show you over here what we have it set to.
So we have it set to repeat three one FR But I just want to two so I'm going to say repeat two, one
fr all right.
We'll save that.
Uh.
So let's see the first child here.
Yeah.
We want to get rid of the spans because that's kind of that's kind of ruining things.
So let's grab the first child.
So we'll say home articles and we want to target articles container and we want the immediate element,
the immediate first child element.
And let's set grid template columns because remember the first in the last there there are also grids,
as you can see right here and they have grid template columns of two one far.
We just want to set it to a single column.
So just one fr like that.
All right.
And then we want to clear the span, because right here you can see we're doing the span.
So I'm going to say grid dash column and just set it to one, which is just the default.
So let's save that.
And now this is put back into just it's just like the rest of them.
Let's do the same for the last one.
So we can actually just.
Copy this.
And put a comma here and then change this to last child.
Save that.
And there we go.
So now we just have two columns, no matter what.
First and last are the same as the rest.
Good.
Now, I think that's that's good for the tablet.
In fact, let's check it out.
So actually we'll use our chrome tools here and lets me just move this to the side and we'll hit the
the, the little icon here for the devices.
And this would be an iPad.
Let me just stretch this out.
And right now, this iPad is in landscape mode.
So I'm going to just flip it and this is what it's going to look like, which which looks pretty good.
Even the footer I'll keep like that for our devices that are 768 like this.
But on smaller devices like let's choose iPhone X, this doesn't look right.
So we want this to be in the middle.
So just take up the whole thing here and then I want these to all be stacked.
The footer is definitely not responsive, so we want that to be stacked as well.
About Page, we want to change that up the page container.
Same thing with the article page.
So now let's deal with smaller devices.
So I'm going to get out of this mode here and let's bring this back down.
And now in this mobile case, I'm going to I'm going to add a media query.
So I'm going to say media, and I'm going to do a max width of, let's say, 600 pixels.
And then anything we put in here is only going to pertain to anything under 600 pixels.
So let's, let's take what we need to stack, meaning I want just one column.
So I'm going to say stack grid items and there's a few things I want to I want to do that to.
One is going to be the showcase container this right here, if you remember or I can just show you real
quick.
Let's see showcase showcase container is set to grid template columns repeat to one fr we want it to
just be just one fr so we're going to take this actually we should probably put the selector in here
first.
So let's say showcase dot, showcase container and we just want to change this to just simply one fr
like that.
And if we save now that goes all the way across.
There's some other things we want to stack such as the these home articles.
So let's say home ID home articles and we want the container, which is articles container and we want
those to stack.
So we'll save.
There we go.
So that looks pretty good.
Yeah.
All right.
So what else?
The footer.
So we want these footer items to stack.
So let's go ahead and put a comma here and let's say main dash footer and we want the footer container
and save.
And it didn't work.
Why didn't that work?
I mean, for.
Hmm.
Why isn't that working?
We called it main footer.
Correct.
Let's just check it over here.
So we have main footer.
For a container and it's set to basically for one far.
Oh, you know what it is?
It's the span, the last child here we span.
So we want to clear that up.
So let's take this the selector right here and put that in and let's grab the what was it?
The last child is what we spanned.
So let's say last child.
And oops, forgot the colon.
And then we want to set the grid column.
To one and save.
And now it stacks because if you have something spanning however many columns, four columns, it's
going to it's going to you can't have just one fr it's going to it's going to adapt to whatever the
amount of columns that you're spanning.
So we want to set make sure that that's set to one.
All right.
Now, another thing I want to do here is this looks kind of really clumped together.
So I want to add a faint border between the modules here or whatever you want to call these these these
items.
So let's go and say main footer and take the footer container and let's say all items in the footer
container.
I'm going to add a border bottom of four, four, four dotted one pixel and then some padding just to
separate it a bit.
So we'll say padding, dash border.
And let's set that to one ram and.
Oops.
What's going on here?
Padding does I see padding border with the padding bottom.
Okay.
So as you can see now, we have a border separating all of these with some padding now.
This one here doesn't look right because of the we have the list items and we have a border for each
one.
So this kind of looks funny having it's like it looks like a double border, really.
So I want to remove that one.
And remember, we have the Nth Child.
I also want to remove this one.
I don't think that that needs to be there because this has its own background and it looks completely
separate.
So that's pretty easy to do.
We can just say main footer for our container and then let's say we want the item, we want the the
last child, so colon last child.
And then we also want just copy this.
We want this one here, which is going to be the third one down, right?
The third item.
So we'll use nth child.
So Child three and let's just set border.
To none.
And save.
And now you can see that that border is gone.
And, oh, actually, you know what we don't want the last child would be this one.
Which I guess, yeah, we would want to move that, remove that one.
But if we want to move this one as well, we can use any child.
So we'll copy that and let's do Child four and Save.
And now that board is gone.
All right.
And we could have done it the opposite way and just chose this first first child and child two and just
added a border.
We could have did that as well.
I guess that that probably I guess that would be a better way to do it.
Yeah, let's actually do it that way.
It's less, it's less CSIS.
And I'm not going to cut this out of the video because I just want to show you, you can do things different
ways.
So instead of doing this, instead of putting a border on all and then removing, let's just pick out
the first child.
So first child and then the ninth child.
Two and we'll add the border and then we there's no need to do this and it's less CSIS.
So if I save, we get the same result.
So we just added the border here and here instead of to all and then removing it.
All right.
So, I mean, you know, I could cut that out and just redo it.
But I want you guys to see that there's there's different ways to do things.
And sometimes you realize that when you're writing your code, I think, let's see, what do we have
left the page container?
So right now, I mean, this is done the home page.
But if we go to a boat and that doesn't look right, that's, you know, that's way too thin.
So we just want to put this we want to stack this into one column.
So one fr basically.
So let's take the page container and let's say grid template columns one FR.
So we're going to stack it.
And I also want to align everything to the center on, on really small screen.
So we'll do text align center.
Now if I save this, let's see.
Well, yeah, I guess that does work.
Let's look at the article page.
Yeah, that works.
But I do want to clear the row span because remember we do have a row span.
If we look at let's see, where is it?
If we look at the page container, first child, we have a grid row spanning here.
So I'm going to just grab that and we're going to set grid row just to one and save.
All right, so that looks pretty good.
So our site is now complete.
Let's let's go ahead and check it out in the actual devices.
So we'll open up our dev tools here, click that icon.
So this is an iPhone X, everything looks pretty good.
Footer is stacked.
We have our two borders.
Yeah, so that looks pretty good.
Let's check the about page.
All right.
That's that's quite a bit of text there.
And we probably didn't need that much text, but that's fine.
And if you guys want to add on to the I would actually suggest that you add on to these projects, you
know, add more pages, add more little widgets and stuff like that.
Let's see, what do we have the article page take a look at that looks pretty good.
If you want to stack the flex items here, you could do that.
But I think that that's OC.
Yeah, yeah.
Everything looks good.
Let's check pixel two.
Yep.
Same same deal.
Let's check the iPhone five, which is sometimes hard to to make look good.
But I think that this is pretty good about page.
Oh you know what we should do is lessen the font size for the LX heading on mobile devices.
So we'll say L dash heading.
I think I have it set to three rem.
So let's set font size to two rem OC and yeah, that looks that looks more that looks better.
All right, guys, hopefully you enjoyed this project and hopefully you learned quite a bit about how
to use CSS grid and that's it.
Thanks for watching, guys.
I appreciate it.